
Module1 - PHP Lesson 01

  Introduction to PHP

    PHP: a server-side programming language that allows you to develop applications on a web server
         that are able to dynamically deliver content to a web browser or mobile application.
         // a site can use an index.php file instead of index.html

    Using index.html - the server responds by sedning the single static index.html to the client's browser
                      to be viewed when the client makes a request for your index.html

    Using index.php  - you can choose to write blocks of logic that will determine what content is shown
                      dynamically, every time the file is requested.

                      With a request from a client to the URL hosting your php file, the host server executes
                      the code in your php file. >> when different users access to your index.php, they can be
                      served content unique to their experience at that time.

    Every block of PHP code must be wrapped inside of <?php and ?>

        When someone requests your PHP page, the server runs through your PHP file, top-to-bottom, compiling the response, and sends it back to the client.
        Most of the time PHP is used to build web pages.

        your PHP page requested > from top to bottom,
                                  the server runs through the php file,
                                             compiles the response,
                                             sends it back to the client

        In this class, the code in your PHP file will need to generate a response string that has been formatted like HTML code so it can be interpreted by a web browser. In other classes you will be writing applications that make HTTP-requests to a PHP script, which in return might send back a JSON or XML response - how you format the response is up to you as the back-end developer.

        // PHP builds the (HTML) response on the server before it is sent to the client's browser to be interpreted as HTML.

        PHP pages can contain pure HTML code; however, it must be written outside of the blocks of PHP code. Within the blocks of PHP code, you can use a function called echo() to inject text into the response being built for the client's browser.